>> Participant: How do you manage early
days in office as software developer?
I mean, what priority?
What things should you prioritize more,
connection to other people or
focus on the job description at first?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Especially
when you start a new job.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So I think it's
important to split, it almost 50, 50,
in that.
So it depends on how this
company is actually structured,
and whether you're expected
to be on site all the time.
Of course, if you can ramp quickly,
in your work.
That would be great, but
if you can combine it together right?
Because a lot of that ramp up
activities can actually be best,
faster learned by connecting with another
engineer and having them actually
go through it together with you and
they're pointing out the quick spots too.
And that actually becomes your first
connection with somebody which
you can build on top of.
I also find that these on-site events,
especially if they don't
happen that often.
So I'm assuming if it doesn't
happen that often, prioritizing,
creating a little bit of a connection with
your teammates is going to be helpful.
So that when you become remote,
you guys already know each other and
you guys can,
it's just smoother when you work together.
But if you are constantly on site,
then I think,
it's fine to not front load all
of the connection building.
Just make sure to schedule time to
actually still do that to at least have
met everybody.
>> Participant: An anecdotal
from my personal career.
Early in my career,
I was at an office that had a lot of roles
that I didn't necessarily
know what they even did.
And so I was like, hey,
can I have coffee with you or take you
to lunch and just talk about your.
Job and how you kinda got there and
whatever and
people were surprisingly really open
to that and granted I was in my 20s and
just kinda eyes wide open
just looking to meet people.
And so that was they were really
amicable to it but I realized that doing
that 34 40 times, I gotta know a lot
of people in the company and then
eventually all the best projects and stuff
just kept getting thrown on my plate.
And I got raises really, really quickly.
And I was really young
leading big projects.
And I have to say that
that's direct one to one,
because everybody knew who I was, whereas,
the other people just only writing code,
it was a huge difference.
And that kind of connection?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, exactly,
if you think about it right,
like if you're giving opportunities,
you prefer, it's not great.
But of course,
you prefer to give it to someone you know,
like someone you're like
I talked to that person.
I know what he's like, and
they got the skills to do it.
Here you go, right?
Yes.
>> Participant 2: I would add
to not only is this good for
building a relationship with
your manager and your coworkers,
but also your potential manager And
potential co-workers.
I found that asking questions like
you used in your example during
a behavioral interview has really
helped me make a connection and
hit it off with
an engineering manager and.
>> Participant 2: If you start making
that connection a lot of times,
they're willing to go over the allotted
time in the interview, and
then that feels really good.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant 2: Especially if you know
you go over time and
don't even notice it maybe.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, yeah.
>> Participant 2: So
it can be helpful in that context, too.
>> Francesca Sadikin: And
I've definitely, I'm pretty sure,
that them being able to feel like they
had a good conversation with you,
it does impact what they write
about you in the reviews.
Yeah, cuz interviews are also very
subjective, there are a lot of processes,
but it's still based off of how another
engineer feels when they work with you,
and what they think of your skills.
Yes.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Go ahead.
>> Participant: How do you get
the most out of your one-to-ones?
>> Francesca Sadikin: How do I
get the most of the one ones?
I think it depends on what the goal
is of the one ones, if it's-
>> Participant: With your manager,
>> Francesca Sadikin: I see.
>> Participant: Keeping trackin for
instance,
or-
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
if it's a regular one-on-one that I always
have, for example, with my manager.
I could be better at this as well for
myself, but I try to ask,
first of all, am I meeting expectations?
[LAUGH] Am I doing okay based
off what you're looking at?
And then trying to see, it's different
because my manager is always asking
me what opportunities I'm seeing that I
think that should be improved as well.
And so it's kind of more a two-way
conversation where he's also asking for
my opinions on things.
So it's a little different but
just also just asking,
how you can ask, how can I help you?
Manager, I'm doing my task, but
I have a little bit more for your time.
Is there something that you want me to
focus on that would actually be able to
help you more, right?
Those types of conversations, just kinda
getting a sense of what what they're doing
and what they would like more help with.
>> Participant: There's somebody
who had a question around they're
making a career change and
if you're almost kind of ashamed
in sharing things on LinkedIn or
on it's just not.
That they've already built is
kind of in a different field,
and so they're trying to,
break into this new area.
And every time they share about it,
it feels bad, I guess.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah,
that's really difficult.
I wonder if there's anything that you've
experienced in previous field that
would actually help you as an engineer,
and to highlight those abilities, right?
Maybe it's like I've worked with
like numerous other people and
always been able to gain
alignment with them.
That's a useful skill as an engineer,
right?
It doesn't have to be
your technical abilities.
>> Participant 3: In this case,
it was a different technical field.
>> Francesca Sadikin: A different
technical field, yeah.
Yeah, I think trying to find those
common things that would be good in
a software engineering role.
And then just stress that,
don't feel shame.
Cuz I feel people can always tell that
you're feeling shameful about it and
they're like, why?
[LAUGH] be proud of it and
find that thing that actually makes
you coz every experience you
learn something important in it.
Take that learning
whether it was a good or
bad thing you've learned
something from it.
Express that in the interviews.
>> Participant: Is it
interesting question.
How would you say the ratio of focusing on
coding skills versus relationship skills,
what kind of balance would you put to
those kind of separate skill tracks?
>> Francesca Sadikin: So
[LAUGH] I kind of,
think of them like the technical
skill has to be there.
It is the foundation on which
you apply this other stuff.
But without the technical skills, you will
not be able to match you won't be able to
take advantage of
the opportunities you're given.
You're not gonna be able
to succeed at them.
So definitely focusing on your technical
foundations and making sure you're
really good there while at the same time,
in your little bits of downtime.
While you're still ramping
up as a software engineer,
going to still maintain
those relationships, right?
It's not, I don't find it particularly
time consuming, because you just gonna
split it up to like, I'll do one 30
minute meeting every week, right?
Just one, and then over time,
you're gonna meet quite a lot of people.
>> Participant: Yeah, I personally think
about it almost like a multiplier effect.
It's if you're an incredible engineer,
and you just get better and better and
better at engineering.
That's awesome, but then every
bit of social skills [LAUGH] and
relationship building, and trust building.
And these kinds of communication skills,
every little bit that you layer on top of
that is a multiplier
affect your entire career.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant: So it's yeah,
the foundation is just
being Amazing coder, but.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant: As you get better at
these other skills, suddenly boom.
>> Francesca Sadikin: So definitely, so-
>> Participant: Opportunities in your lap.
>> Francesca Sadikin: I
think in the beginning,
just especially if you're really,
really new focus on the technical skills.
But just save a little bit of time to
start practicing talking with people and
building that connection.
And moving forward,
when you are working with people,
those are actually all opportunities for
you to show up well, right?
When you start working, already be
a great working partner by making sure
you're not coming across in a way that's
very judgy, or making others unsafe.
Those are how you can show
up every day in your work.
Even if you may not be amazing
at talking with others yet,
there are little things in how you
come across that you can do now.
>> Participant 3: How can
you ask questions without
making the other person feel
they're being inquiring too much.
How can you ask open upend
questions that will lead to,
that conversation and
relationship building?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, definitely,
there's a thing about consent, right?
If it definitely seems a little touchy,
you can ask questions in a way
that gives them an out, right?
You're like that sounds really difficult.
And then if they want to talk about it,
right?
It's a very gentle nudge, I'd love to hear
about it if you wanted to talk about it.
But if they don't, you just let them go.
Don't keep trying to trail down into that.
And other things is just if you look
at their body language and their face,
usually people are not very
careful in how they come across.
And so you can kind of tell you start to
pick up, they don't wanna talk about that.
It's uncomfortable, right?
Or they'll even just change the subject
for you and you just follow them?
You don't wanna force anyone, but
I think always asking, in a way,
in a question, just like,
do you want to talk about it?
I think it's a good way to give
them the option to do it or not.
>> Participant: What's your
advice if you have someone on
your team you genuinely dislike?
>> Francesca Sadikin: Well, if you're
not gonna leave on to another team,
you're gonna have to just figure
out how to work with this person.
You could go very toxic with this, right?
If they're actually genuinely very,
very hard to work with,
then you do the corporate way.
Which is, you start gathering evidence of
how their actions are making it hard for
everybody to deliver, and
then you bring it up to the manager.
That's the very toxic,
formal way of work trying to resolve
something when it's a really bad case.
But if it's just a mild case,
I think you could try and give feedback.
But if they don't take it well.
Because maybe it is you not
giving the feedback well,
or they didn't receive it,
talking to your manager.
That doesn't work.
I guess your options are either to stay on
the team and accept it, or leave the team.
>> Participant 4: Right,
I work with someone that I think
was very difficult before.
So, we're on same project.
And I discovered he wasn't on chat team,
so I chatted him and
told him, you are not online,
something you're not showing visible.
And his response was,
why are you trailing me?
Are you my supervisor?
Something like, I want to report him.
So I said, no you got this wrong.
I'm just trying to see if you have
a problem with your connection or
we are on the same team or if I have
any issue I can always fall back.
>> Participant 4: So
that was a soft tool one.
Another thing, time, you often thinks
I'm I was trying to probably offend him.
He's only offensive anyway.
So there was a time he came
in to me without telling me.
He just called me on Teams and
said, I shouldn't have done this.
I should have told you earlier before.
I said, no, you are my priority.
We are on the same team.
And I was always responding to his
own harsh way with ease and calm.
And eventually we became best of friends.
>> Francesca Sadikin: That's good.
>> Participant 5: So
I think anybody you can handle people.
Eventually, I knew he was going through
because he had to tell me that he was
going through some problems,
and he apologized.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah.
>> Participant 5: I've been at being very.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant 5: Awkward to you, I'm so
sorry.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Your story is very
similar to another story I've heard where,
and that is the thing.
It's sometimes when people are coming
across very aggressive or prickly, maybe
they're actually going through something
difficult in their personal lives.
And it's coming out that way.
And so if we don't engage in it,
and we're actually that's okay,
give them benefit of the doubt and
still being calm.
And if you somehow have a face to
face conversation, to talk it out,
without judging them, or
shaming or blaming them.
Sometimes, they'll actually just say, I'm
sorry, I'm actually having a really bad
time right now and
I'm coming across on you, I know that.
And I'll try to be better, right?
Give them a chance to
actually apologize maybe,
as long as you don't keep
being aggressive with them.
They may actually apologize for you.
>> Participant: Yeah, and in my own
experience in this one is just find
the thing that you both know, or
you know that you both want and try to.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Get
the alignment incentives aligned.
>> Participant: Yes, center your thinking
and also the conversation around.
Hey, we're both trying to do this right?
And then they're, yeah, okay?
What's your ideas here?
And I feel that breaks things open,
so many times,
because it's just this is something
we obviously both want, and
just starting off with
that in a positive way.
I feel almost every single conflict
that I've had with people working,
that's just broken through the the trap.
The doors, trap doors or whatever,
cuz you're getting it off what I think or
what I feel or what they think and
what they feel, and
you're putting it on
something that you both want.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yeah, that's
actually, that's really good advice, and
it's also, I think, very similar
to finding that win win situation.
So when you talk to this person,
if you can figure out what incentives
are driving them,
you can see if you can find an alignment.
So that even if you disagree, you said,
we can find a common path to
continue moving forward still.
>> Participant: And then the part is,
if you still can't through,
it's somebody has to make
the decision whether it's a manager.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes.
>> Participant: There's two viable things,
can we just pick one and
both get behind it.